Translate overview page and update frontend dev README with i18n section (#7189)
kiali/kiali: frontend/README.adoc

We use `yarn` as the package manager, if adding dependencies to `package.json`
make sure you install them with `yarn` and commit the `yarn.lock` file.

=== Running Kiali Frontend

> When developing, it is usual to run frontend outside of the kiali server in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When developing, it is typical to run the frontend outside of the kiali server in the cluster.
```

It is possible to proxy the API requests without having to push the changes to kiali.
Add the link:https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app/blob/master/packages/react-scripts/template/README.md#proxying-api-requests-in-development[proxy]
property to `package.json` with the url of kiali.
[source, json]
----
{
  "proxy": "http://localhost:20001",
  "name": "@kiali/kiali-ui",
  "version": "1.82.0",
}
----

If Kiali is configured with a specific web root, make sure to append it to the URL. On many setups with Kubernetes, the web root will be `/kiali` by default.

Run `yarn start` and try it!

=== Internationalization (i18n)

> Kiali application supports internationalization with `react-i18next` library. String literals to be translated are added automatically to locale file (stored in `public/locales/<language>/translation.json`) in development phase with `i18n-parser` (executed along with `yarn start` or `yarn build` command). At runtime, i18n library will use these locale files to perform translation to specific language. The way to adapt React component to i18n framework depends on its type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kiali supports internationalization with the `react-i18next` library. String literals to be translated are added automatically to a locale file (stored in `public/locales/<language>/translation.json`), during the development phase, with `i18n-parser` (executed along with `yarn start` or `yarn build` command). At runtime, the i18n library will use these locale files to perform translation to a specific language. The way to adapt a React component to the i18n framework depends on its type:
```

- **React class:**

> Use `withTranslation` high order component. More info link:https://react.i18next.com/latest/withtranslation-hoc[here]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `withTranslation` high order component. More info link:https://react.i18next.com/latest/withtranslation-hoc[here]
```

> You have to embed React class with `withTranslation` function (similar to redux connect function):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must embed the React class with the `withTranslation` function (similar to redux connect function):
```

[source, typescript]
----
export const Menu = withTranslation(I18N_NAMESPACE)(MenuComponent);
----

> Besides, `WithTranslation` props must be added to React class properties to include translation `t` function (like Redux properties)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, `WithTranslation` props must be added to the React class properties in order to include the `t` translation function (like Redux properties)
```

[source, typescript]
----
type MenuProps = WithTranslation & {
   ...
};
----

> Then you will be able to use `t` function as any other React class property to translate any label (variable or string literal).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you will be able to use the `t` function, like any other React class property, to translate any label (variable or string literal).
```

[source, typescript]
----
<h1>{this.props.t(title)}</h1>
----

- **React hook:**

> Use useTranslation hook to get translation `t` function. More info link:https://react.i18next.com/latest/usetranslation-hook[here]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `useTranslation` hook to get the `t` translation function. More info link:https://react.i18next.com/latest/usetranslation-hook[here]. 
```

> Any label (variable or string literal) can be translated with `t` function within the component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any label (variable or string literal) can be translated with the`t` function within the component.
```

[source, typescript]
----
const { t } = useTranslation(I18N_NAMESPACE);

<h1>{t(title)}</h1>
----

- **External variable:**

> String literals that are stored in a variable defined outside of React component cannot be translated directly. Instead the translation has to be done when the variable is used within the React component (class or hook).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
String literals that are stored in a variable defined outside of a React component cannot be translated directly. Instead, the translation has to be done when the variable is used within the React component (class or hook).
```

> Problem here is that i18n parser can't extract labels from variables, only from literals. To indicate i18n parser to add that kind of string literals to locale file use `ì18n.t` function. Note that `i18n.t` does not perform any translation, it returns the same string literal on runtime (only for development purposes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The problem is that the i18n parser can't extract labels from variables, only from literals. To indicate to the i18n parser to add that kind of string literal to the locale file, use the`ì18n.t` function. Note that `i18n.t` does not perform any translation, it returns the same string literal at runtime (only for development purposes).
```

[source, typescript]
----
import { i18n } from 'i18n';

const overviewTypes = {
  app: i18n.t('Apps'),
  workload: i18n.t('Workloads'),
  service: i18n.t('Services')
};

const Example: React.FC<Props> = (props: Props) => {
  const { t } = useTranslation(I18N_NAMESPACE);

  return (
    <span>{t(overviewTypes.app)}</span>
    ...
  )
}
----

- **External function:**

> External functions declared outside of React components cannot use `t` function directly. Instead it must be passed as input parameter (`TFunction` type must be imported from `react-i18next` library, it will fail if imported from `i18next` library):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
External functions declared outside of React components cannot use the `t` function directly. Instead, it must be passed as an input parameter (`TFunction` type must be imported from the `react-i18next` library, it will fail if imported from `i18next` library):
```

[source, typescript]
----
import { TFunction, useTranslation } from 'react-i18next';

const externalFunction = (t: TFunction): React.ReactNode => {
  return (
    ...
      <div>{t('Issuer:')}</div>
    ...
  )
}

const Example: React.FC<Props> = (props: Props) => {
  const { t } = useTranslation(I18N_NAMESPACE);

  return (
    <Tooltip position={TooltipPosition.top} content={externalFunction(t)}>
    ...
    </Tooltip>
  )
}

----

**Special i18n cases:**

- **Interpolation:**

You can include any variable value within the translated statement with interpolation. More info link:https://www.i18next.com/translation-function/interpolation[here]

[source, typescript]
----
<div>{t('Kiali home cluster: {{clusterName}}', { clusterName: homeCluster?.name })}</div>
----

> The variables are represented with `{{$variable}}`. You can set any name to the variable, you have just to be sure that matches with json field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The variables are represented with `{{$variable}}`. You can set any name to the variable, you have just to be sure that it matches the json field.
```

This is how it looks like in the translation file:

[source, json]
----
"Kiali home cluster: {{clusterName}}": "Kiali主集群: {{clusterName}}",
----

- **Plurals:**

When a statement is different in singular and plural, you can use `defaultValue_one` and `defaultValue_other` fields to add different plural statements (no need to add 's' manually anymore). Note that in this case the variable name must be `count`. For convenience the key will be the singular statement. More info link:https://www.i18next.com/translation-function/plurals[here]

[source, typescript]
----
labelsInfo = this.props.t('{{count}} label', {
        count: labelsLength,
        defaultValue_one: '{{count}} label',
        defaultValue_other: '{{count}} labels'
      });
----

**Additional i18n notes:**

> - Add always namespace variable `I18N_NAMESPACE` to any React component translation configuration (`withTranslation` or `useTranslation`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Always add namespace variable `I18N_NAMESPACE` to any React component translation configuration (`withTranslation` or `useTranslation`).
```

[source, typescript]
----
export const Menu = withTranslation(I18N_NAMESPACE)(MenuComponent);

const { t } = useTranslation(I18N_NAMESPACE);
----

> - Always import i18n variable from `i18n`, not from `i18next` or `react-i18next` libraries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Always import the i18n variable from `i18n`, not from `i18next` or `react-i18next` libraries
```

[source, typescript]
----
import { i18n } from 'i18n';
----

> - If the React class component contains static methods, you have to use `hoistNonReactStatics` library to copy static methods to translated components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the React class component contains static methods, you have to use the`hoistNonReactStatics` library to copy static methods to translated components
```

[source, typescript]
----
const OverviewToolbarI18n = hoistNonReactStatics(
  withTranslation(I18N_NAMESPACE)(OverviewToolbarComponent),
  OverviewToolbarComponent
);
----

> - If you need the translated class component includes React reference to access DOM nodes, use `{ withRef: true }` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you need the translated class component to include a React reference to access DOM nodes, use `{ withRef: true }` option:
```
